in this lesson we're going to explore
the functionality and usage of azure
resource manager arm templates and i've
talked about these before and if i go
back to that idea of the idea that hey
look there's
azure and
everything we do is by the azure
resource manager
well the reality is everything in azure
is really defined in terms of json this
javascript object notation
and when we actually provision resources
the best way to do that
is
with an arm
template
so i create an arm template
which is using json as the format
and it's declarative
what that means is i am specifying
what i want the end state to be i'm not
telling it how to do it whereas
powershell and the azure cli yes i could
create things but i have to tell it how
to do it hey use the create command to
do whatever i need to do set these
attributes and the challenge with that
would be if the script failed halfway
through
can i just start it again probably not
if i try and do a crate again it will
fail hey this exists already
if i change my desired state and i
change an attribute in my powershell
script to my bash script
i could just run it again it's not going
to update i'd have to use a different
command to now do a modify a resource
whereas this is declarative
in my declarative file i simply say hey
i want a new storage account
i want it to be called sa1
i want it to be locally redundant
and i want it in east us
and then what i do is i apply that to
azure
and i can actually apply that i could
call it through devops pipelines i could
push it through a powershell command i
could push it through the az cli as a
deployment so basically i deploy
this template
the challenge is they're fantastic
there's the closing i can put this in a
version control it's not super human
friendly
if i go and look at a json template so
this is exactly that this creates a
storage account you'll notice
i can have parameters i could pass so i
could specify different types
standard loss is the default but i could
do others
i could also pass the location
i can have variables for the name and
then ultimately it's going to go and
create the resource
as we can see here it's from the
microsoft dot storage resource provider
of type storage account
and then all those different things
but this is not the most friendlier
formats
but this is how azure works behind the
scenes
so it's very very powerful and i could
keep deploying the same file it's item
potent if i deploy it
it's going to go and create that storage
account to meet those requirements so
hey it's going to create me sa1
that is lrs in east u.s
if i apply it again it says well it's
already existing like that i don't need
to do anything
but what's cool is i could say actually
i change my mind
i now want to be grs
i would just redeploy my desired my
declared end state is different i deploy
it again and it would just go and update
this to now be grs
so that's the power of arm templates
which is why if i want to provision
something
i don't want to do it imperatively line
by line using cli or powershell i want
to use an arm template
now i can deploy and define multiple
resources in the same file they would
deploy in parallel if they can unless
there's some dependency between them
then certain things may run sequentially
and what's so powerful is again i can
have these files
in my kind of git repos
so my conversion control
and then actually call them as part of
my various devops pipelines so i have
some cicd pipeline
that can take the file and deploy it as
part of some bigger set of actions
now i also mentioned previously the idea
of biceps so bicep
is a different format
it's based on
typescript it's a lot more friendly so
this is human friendly for us to kind of
write this it's the same declarative
format
and what actually happens when i deploy
one of these behind the scenes it
transpiles i it converts it to
an arm template but i don't see that so
behind the scenes is the same resource
providers and everything else this is
just a far friendlier format for us to
use so if i was to jump over
back to this repository for a second
and if i go back up to arm templates
and actually we'll go and look at my
devops master class
and i've got my infrastructure as code
here i've got the same thing as a bicep
file
you'll notice it's just a lot friendlier
for us as a human hey i'm defining a
couple of parameters and then sure i
create a resource i'm going to call it
stg just within the script
it's using that microsoft storage
resource provider and it's using a
certain version of the storage accounts
resource type
then i have the various attributes
and i'm done
so it's a lot friendlier for us to
actually use that and there are third
parties there's things like terraform
which has an azure provider so i could
use that as well
but this is the solution
for provisioning so if i want to
provision
to azure
this is my solution i want to use arm
templates because it's declarative
i'm stating my intent not how to do it i
can run it as many times as i want i
could check if there's drift i can
version control it
this is the right solution so if you
ever see a question on what technology
should i use to provision resources it's
going to be arm templates
that's where we want to go